# online-student-teacher-portal
web based virtual classroom portal which provides online learning with video conferencing, real time chat and discussion, assignment posting, quiz taking module and so on. It is basically clone of zoom app with additional features.

Online Teacher-Student Module is fully dedicated project for education system only. In this project, we will provide different view and features for teacher, students and Parent.
We know that when teaching were happening physically, it was difficult for parent to track the learning of their ward. They only came to know about learning development through parent teacher meetings only which was of course influenced by many factors. Also bullying was common in that system. Also schools could merely focus on individual student and their development. Online education system has advantage over it. But in current time there is no dedicated platform for education and hence students, teacher waste a lot of time by switching platforms and updating same data again and again on different platform. Also the interface of many platform is quite difficult to understand by small kids of school and hence required assistance of their parent which affect the time and efficiency of parents as well.
For example, Google classroom is platform where teacher can post assignment/ homework and student can upload their work .There is no system on google classroom for real time video streaming and no system for taking quizzes and examination. Hence teacher/ students have to switch to another platform for getting real time lectures like google meet and MS Team which are design for professional for office meeting and other activities which has difficult interface. Kids of lower classes cannot use such platform like MS Team by own.
Also for quizzes teacher/students have to move to another platform like hacker earth, google form (which can be used as quiz taking facility) and so on. 
Also now a days there is possibility of involving parents in education system by providing them separate view/interface to monitor and track the learning of their ward. They can also assess the lectures to watch where his/her ward is learning or involve in another activities like bullying, making fun. Parent can watch their ward from anywhere (like offices) and anytime (like tea breaks) which bring satisfaction to parent if school is doing their job efficiently and also helps them to manage their ward in right way.
In old physical way of learning, this was not possible and parents spend their money blindly on schools and in return sometimes they get a spoilt and unskilled child.
Currently there is no such platform which can provide such features to parents where parent can see the results, development of their ward in numeric and pictorial representation. This project will try to provide such features to ensure maximum involvement of parents in education of their ward.
This project will be integration of all different features like quiz facility, real time video and chat facility, assignment/test posting facility which are provided by different platform with different level of difficulty. By this, we will reduce the difficulties and wastages of time in switching different platform and updating simultaneously. Also this project will try to bring teacher-student-parent on same page.
